This is a document shpherd write-up of draft-ietd-dnsop-as112-dname-03,
structured according to the requirements of RFC 4858 and following
the corresponding template dated 24 February 2012.

> (1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard,
> Internet Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)?  Why
> is this the proper type of RFC?  Is this type of RFC indicated in the
> title page header?

   Requested status is Informational.

   This document describes an approach for mitigating a key deficiency
   in the existing ("Direct Delegation") model of AS112 deployment
   that makes use of DNAME, namely the difficulty in adding or
   dropping particular zones from the AS112 infrastructure.

   The use of DNAME for this purpose is novel, and while some
   experiments (as described in this document) have indicated
   widespread support across the Internet for DNAME and have confirmed
   that the approach is functionally feasible, DNAME has not been
   previously used for AS112 in the wild. Note that the document
   does not propose immediate refactoring of the direct delegation
   approach for existing zones sunk in the AS112 infrastructure.

   Given the experimental aspects of this approach the document
   shepherd and the authors are not opposed to Experimental status.
   However, the document shepherd feels that Informational is
   preferred given plausible indications that the dependent mechanism
   (i.e. DNAME) are well-defined, well-deployed and suitable for
   the purpose.

> (2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement
> Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement Write-Up. Recent
> examples can be found in the "Action" announcements for approved
> documents.

Technical Summary

   Many sites connected to the Internet make use of IPv4 addresses
   that are not globally unique.  Examples are the addresses
   designated in RFC 1918 for private use within individual sites.

   Devices in such environments may occasionally originate Domain
   Name System (DNS) queries (so-called "reverse lookups") corresponding
   to those private-use addresses.  Since the addresses concerned
   have only local significance, it is good practice for site
   administrators to ensure that such queries are answered locally.
   However, it is not uncommon for such queries to follow the normal
   delegation path in the public DNS instead of being answered
   within the site.

   It is not possible for public DNS servers to give useful answers
   to such queries.  In addition, due to the wide deployment of
   private-use addresses and the continuing growth of the Internet,
   the volume of such queries is large and growing.  The AS112
   project aims to provide a distributed sink for such queries in
   order to reduce the load on the IN-ADDR.ARPA authoritative
   servers.  The AS112 project is named after the Autonomous System
   Number (ASN) that was assigned to it.

   The AS112 project does not accommodate the addition and removal
   of DNS zones elegantly.  Since additional zones of definitively
   local significance are known to exist, this presents a problem.
   This document describes modifications to the deployment and use
   of AS112 infrastructure that will allow zones to be added and
   dropped much more easily.

Working Group Summary

   There were no notable outcomes from the WG process or in the
   working-group last call. The dnsop working group chair observed
   strong consensus on the text and the approach described by the
   text following presentations and discussion on the mailing list
   and in multiple in-person meetings.

Document Quality

   The document describes the use of protocols that are already
   defined and implemented to augment AS112 infrastructure. The
   approach was validated by experiment, and an abridged summary
   of that experiment and its results are included in the document.

   The Acknowledgements section of the diagram does not omit to
   mention any significant reviewer.

   The working group review included input from participants with
   significant DNS protocol and operations expertise, and in the
   opionion of this document shepherd and the working group chairs
   no additional expert consultation is required.

Personnel

   The document shepherd is Tim Wicinski.

   The dnsop working group chairs are Tim Wicinski and Suzanne
   Woolf.

   The responsible area director is Joel Jaeggli.

> (3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by
> the Document Shepherd.  If this version of the document is not ready
> for publication, please explain why the document is being forwarded to
> the IESG.

   The document shepherd reviewed this document for clarity, potential
   for ambiguity or self-contradiction, technical accuracy and
   operational impact.

   It is the document shepherd's opinion that this document is ready
   to forward to the IESG.

> (4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or
> breadth of the reviews that have been performed?

   The document shepherd has no such concern.

> (5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from
> broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, DNS,
> DHCP, XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the review that
> took place.

   In the opinion of the document shepherd, no further or wider review
   is necessary.

> (6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document Shepherd
> has with this document that the Responsible Area Director and/or the
> IESG should be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she is uncomfortable
> with certain parts of the document, or has concerns whether there really
> is a need for it. In any event, if the WG has discussed those issues and
> has indicated that it still wishes to advance the document, detail those
> concerns here.

   The document shepherd has no such concern and has identified no
   such issue.

> (7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR
> disclosures required for full conformance with the provisions of BCP 78
> and BCP 79 have already been filed. If not, explain why.

   No IPR disclosures have been made for this document.

   The authors have indicated that no IPR disclosures are intended
   to be made.

   The document shepherd has identified no reasons for an IPR
   disclosure to be made.

> (8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document?
> If so, summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR
> disclosures.

   No such IPR disclosure has been made.

> (9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it
> represent the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others
> being silent, or does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it?

   The document shepherd and dnsop working group chairs have identified
   strong working group consensus for this document to proceed.

   The document has been discussed at some length on the dnsop mailing
   list and has also been presented in multiple face-to-face meetings.

> (10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme
> discontent? If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in separate
> email messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It should be in a
> separate email because this questionnaire is publicly available.)

   The document shepherd and working group chairs are aware of no
   such threat or discontent.

> (11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this
> document. (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the Internet-Drafts
> Checklist). Boilerplate checks are not enough; this check needs to be
> thorough.

   No I-D nits have been identified by the document shepherd.

> (12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review
> criteria, such as the MIB Doctor, media type, and URI type reviews.

   No such formal review is required for this document.

> (13) Have all references within this document been identified as
> either normative or informative?

   All references have been identified as either normative or
   informative.

> (14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready for
> advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such normative
> references exist, what is the plan for their completion?

   This document contains a normative reference to
   draft-ietf-dnsop-rfc6304bis which is being submitted to the IESG
   in a bundle with this document.  The document shepherd suggests
   that both documents be considered by the IESG together, since
   they reference each other. Following direction from the IESG to
   proceed, both documents would most naturally proceed through the
   publication process together.

> (15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC 3967)?
> If so, list these downward references to support the Area Director in
> the Last Call procedure.

   There are no downward normative references.

> (16) Will publication of this document change the status of any
> existing RFCs? Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, listed
> in the abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the RFCs are not
> listed in the Abstract and Introduction, explain why, and point to the
> part of the document where the relationship of this document to the
> other RFCs is discussed. If this information is not in the document,
> explain why the WG considers it unnecessary.

   Publication of this document will not change the status of any
   existing RFC.

> (17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA considerations
> section, especially with regard to its consistency with the body of the
> document. Confirm that all protocol extensions that the document makes
> are associated with the appropriate reservations in IANA registries.
> Confirm that any referenced IANA registries have been clearly
> identified. Confirm that newly created IANA registries include a
> detailed specification of the initial contents for the registry, that
> allocations procedures for future registrations are defined, and a
> reasonable name for the new registry has been suggested (see RFC 5226).

   The document shepherd has been informed by the authors that the
   IANA Considerations section has already been informally reviewed
   by IANA staff, and that changes informally suggested have been
   implemented.

   All number resource assignments and directions relating to the
   delegation of a zone from the ARPA TLD have been confirmed (again,
   informally) to be clear and actionable.

   No new registries are requested by this document.

   The use of a name under the ARPA TLD requires IAB approval, per
   RFC 3172. This document includes an IAB Considerations section
   that is sufficient to request and document the IAB's review, in
   the opinion of the document shepherd.

> (18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for future
> allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG would find
> useful in selecting the IANA Experts for these new registries.

   No new registries are requested by this document.

> (19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document
> Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal
> language, such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, etc.

   This document contains no such section.

